Update security docs to address outdated cryptographic defaults, broken samples, and weak recommendations (#53164)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/security/cryptographic-services.md

Reviewer: expand to say an implementation of a cryptographically secure random number generation algorithm

A type of secret-key algorithm called a block cipher is used to encrypt one block of data at a time. Block ciphers such as Data Encryption Standard (DES), TripleDES, and Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cryptographically transform an input block of *n* bytes into an output block of encrypted bytes. If you want to encrypt or decrypt a sequence of bytes, you have to do it block by block. Because *n* is small (8 bytes for DES and TripleDES; 16 bytes [the default], 24 bytes, or 32 bytes for AES), data values that are larger than *n* have to be encrypted one block at a time. Data values that are smaller than *n* have to be expanded to *n* in order to be processed.

> [!WARNING]

> > DES and TripleDES (3DES) are deprecated per [NIST SP 800-131A](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/131a/r2/final) and should not be used for new development. Use <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.Aes> instead.

Reviewer 2: IMO more future proof without last sentence

Reviewer 3: IMO, much better without the warning at all.  It's describing block ciphers, and says DES, DES-EDE, and AES are block ciphers.  It doesn't say "use DES", or even "you can use DES".

To stick with strained analogies:

"A type of weapon called a projectile weapon is used to transmit an object from one party with the intent of striking another while remaining afar.  Projectile weapons such as a slingshot, M16, and Glock 19 are typically used in a more-or-less horizontal fashion, while alternatives such as a trebuchet are fired in a high arc.

Warning: Early model M16 guns are/were prone to jamming. Do not use early model M16s for new combat."

It's just... so out of place.

> > DES and TripleDES (3DES) are deprecated and should not be used for new development. Use <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.Aes> instead, ideally with an authenticated encryption mode such as GCM (<xref:System.Security.Cryptography.AesGcm>).

Reviewer: AES GCM has multiple pitfalls and should not be recommended in such a casual manner

Reviewer 3: Never, ever recommend AES-GCM.

Author: Thanks. Found and removed additional guidance toward it too.

One simple form of block cipher is called the electronic codebook (ECB) mode. ECB mode is not considered secure, because it does not use an initialization vector to initialize the first plaintext block. For a given secret key *k*, a simple block cipher that does not use an initialization vector will encrypt the same input block of plaintext into the same output block of ciphertext. Therefore, if you have duplicate blocks in your input plaintext stream, you will have duplicate blocks in your output ciphertext stream. These duplicate output blocks alert unauthorized users to the weak encryption used the algorithms that might have been employed, and the possible modes of attack. The ECB cipher mode is therefore quite vulnerable to analysis, and ultimately, key discovery.

> [!WARNING]

> > ECB mode must not be used for encryption. CBC mode with an unpredictable IV is the default for .NET's block cipher classes. If data integrity is also required, apply separate authentication (for example, HMAC) using an Encrypt-then-MAC pattern.

Reviewer 2: perhpas refer to NIST standards rather than "Encrypt-then-MAC" since at some point they might recommend to always use bundled together algo and not recommend to do it manually at all

Reviewer 3: It already says "ECB mode is not considered secure."

Don't double down.

- <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.SHA512>.

> .NET also provides <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.MD5> and <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.SHA1> for standards conformance and backward compatibility with existing data formats and protocols. However, the MD5 and SHA-1 algorithms have been found to be insecure per [NIST SP 800-131A](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/131a/r2/final). .NET provides the FIPS-approved SHA-2 family (SHA256, SHA384, and SHA512) as replacements.

Reviewer 2: "FIPS approved" is a function with time domain so more correct will be "at time of writing this document" - especially with quantum on the horizon

Reviewer 3: Just delete the last sentence.

> [!WARNING]

> > Do not use MD5 or SHA-1 for security-sensitive purposes such as digital signatures or certificate validation, unless required by an existing data format standard. Use a current FIPS-approved hash algorithm for new development.

Reviewer 3: My redundant rage has built up, I apologize.  But:

THIS WAS ALREADY SAID BY THE PREVIOUS PARAGRAPH! OH MY FREAKING GOSH STOP SAYING A THING THEN SAYING "WARNING: THAT THING I SAID!"

Reviewer 2: justified rant 😄

## Random Number Generation

Random number generation is integral to many cryptographic operations. For example, cryptographic keys need to be as random as possible so that it is infeasible to reproduce them. Cryptographic random number generators must generate output that is computationally infeasible to predict with a probability that is better than one half. Therefore, any method of predicting the next output bit must not perform better than random guessing. The classes in .NET use random number generators to generate cryptographic keys.

> The <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.RandomNumberGenerator> class is an implementation of a cryptographically secure random number generation algorithm.

Reviewer 3: Ah, semantics.  `RandomNumberGenerator` as an instantiable class is the same as an interface: it just provides syntax, no semantics.  It is _intended_ to be a CSPRNG, but it can't guarantee it.

The _static methods_ on `RandomNumberGenerator` use the CSPRNG provided by the underlying OS/platform.

The object returned by `RandomNumberGenerator.Create()` (unless you're on NetFX and have overridden it with CryptoConfig) is (sort of) an implementation of a CSPRNG.

The best fix, I think is

```suggestion
Use the static methods of <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.RandomNumberGenerator> to obtain cryptographically secure random numbers.
```

> .NET also provides <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.MD5> and <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.SHA1>. But the MD5 and SHA-1 algorithms have been found to be insecure, and SHA-2 is now recommended instead. SHA-2 includes SHA256, SHA384, and SHA512.

Reviewer: Add explanation of why we include them. "Standards conformance, backwards compatibility etc".

> [!WARNING]

> > Do not use MD5 or SHA-1 for any security-sensitive purpose, including data integrity, digital signatures, or certificate validation. Use SHA-256 or higher from the SHA-2 family.

Reviewer: Soften to say "Do not use, unless required by a data format standard"
